models/Requisitos/README.md, before:

The tool **Modelio** has been used to represent the requirements in each scenario.

---

## Project Usage and Visualization (Modelio)

To explore the requirements traceability, modify diagrams, or generate new documentation, you must use the modeling tool with which the project was created: **Modelio**.

###  Prerequisites

* **Modeling Tool:** **Modelio 5.4** is required. You can download the corresponding version from the official Modelio website.
* **Git Manager:** It is recommended to use **GitHub Desktop** to clone the repository and manage updates.

###  Opening the Project

The Modelio project is stored in a ZIP format within the repository for easy storage and download. Follow these steps to access and open the project:

1.  **Clone the Repository:** Use GitHub Desktop to clone this repository onto your local machine.
2.  **Locate the File:** Once cloned, navigate to the following path in your file system:
    `SE25/models/Requisitos/`
3.  **Unzip:** The project file is compressed in a **ZIP file** within this folder. **Unzip the file** into the same location.
4.  **Open in Modelio:**
    * Open the **Modelio 5.4** application.
    * Go to `File` and select `Open an existing project...`.
    * Navigate to the folder where you unzipped the Modelio project (inside `SE25/models/Requisitos/`) and select the main project file (usually with a `.project` extension).

### Contribution and Model Updates

If you have made modifications or added new requirements in Modelio and wish to update the GitHub repository, you must follow the inverse process:

1.  **Compress the Project:** Once changes are saved in Modelio, navigate to your local project folder (`SE25/models/Requisitos/`) and **compress all content** of the Modelio project back into a **ZIP file**.
2.  **Overwrite:** Ensure that this new ZIP file overwrites the previous one located in `SE25/models/Requisitos/`.
3.  **Synchronize with GitHub:**
    * Open GitHub Desktop.
    * You will see that the new ZIP file appears as modified.
    * Add a summary of the changes (Commit), and then **push** the changes to the remote repository.

---

# Developers
This is the diagram corresponding to the requirements that affect the developers. In this case, these are all the established requirements.  
<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="Class Diagram" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/REQ_Dev_Diagram.png" />  

### Detail: Requirement REQ-F-004  

Since it is a complex diagram to interpret, detailed information can be obtained by clicking on both the requirements and the scenarios.  
<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="Class Diagram" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/REQ_ReqN004.png" />  
### Detail:Scenario 1

<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="Class Diagram" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/REQ_Scenario1.png" />  

# End-User
This is the diagram corresponding to the requirements that affect the **End-User**. This view shows all the operational scenarios and the specific functional and non-functional requirements they satisfy.

<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="End-User Requirements Diagram" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/end-user.png" />

Since the full diagram can be complex, here are detailed views from the Modelio `Links Editor` showing the traceability for a specific scenario and a specific requirement.

### Detail: Scenario 2 - Manual Control of the Robotic Arm
This view from the `Links Editor` shows all the requirements that are satisfied by `Scenario 2`.

<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="Scenario 2 Links" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/scenario2.png" />

### Detail: Requirement REQ-F-005 - Individual Joint Control
This view from the `Links Editor` shows which scenarios are linked to the requirement `REQ-F-005`.

<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="REQ-F-005 Links" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/req5.png" />

Commit message:

Enhance README.md with formatting and instructions
Updated README.md to enhance formatting and clarity with emojis, improved instructions for opening and compressing the Modelio project, and added sections for requirements modeling diagrams.

models/Requisitos/README.md, after:

The tool **Modelio** has been used to represent the requirements in each scenario.

---

## 🚀 Project Usage and Visualization (Modelio)

To explore the requirements traceability, modify diagrams, or generate new documentation, you must use the modeling tool with which the project was created: **Modelio**.

### 🛠️ Prerequisites

* **Modeling Tool:** **Modelio 5.4** is required. You can download the corresponding version from the official Modelio website.
* **Git Manager:** It is recommended to use **GitHub Desktop** to clone the repository and manage updates.

### 📂 Opening the Project (Using the ZIP File)

The Modelio project is stored compressed in a **ZIP file** within the repository. Modelio can open this file directly.

1.  **Clone the Repository:** Use GitHub Desktop to clone this repository onto your local machine.
2.  **Locate the File:** Once cloned, navigate to the following path in your file system:
    `SE25/models/Requisitos/`
3.  **Open in Modelio:**
    * Open the **Modelio 5.4** application.
    * Go to `File` and select `Open an existing project...`.
    * Navigate to the folder located at `SE25/models/Requisitos/` and **select the Modelio project ZIP file** (e.g., `ProjectName.zip`). Modelio will handle the decompression upon opening.

### ⬆️ Contribution and Model Updates

If you have made modifications or added new requirements in Modelio and wish to update the GitHub repository, you must follow the inverse process:

1.  **Compress the Project:** Once changes are saved in Modelio, navigate to the folder of your local Modelio project (the *unzipped folder* where the project files reside). **Compress all content** of the Modelio project back into a single **ZIP file**.
2.  **Replace the ZIP:** Place this new ZIP file into the repository folder `SE25/models/Requisitos/`. It must **overwrite** the previous ZIP file.
3.  **Synchronize with GitHub:**
    * Open GitHub Desktop.
    * You will see that the new ZIP file appears as modified.
    * Add a summary of the changes (Commit), and then **push** the changes to the remote repository.

---

## 📊 Requirements Modeling Diagrams

The following sections visually present the architecture and traceability of the project requirements, separated by the primary user perspective: **Developers** and **End-Users**.

# Developers
This is the diagram corresponding to the requirements that affect the developers. In this case, these are all the established requirements.  
<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="Class Diagram" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/REQ_Dev_Diagram.png" />  

### Detail: Requirement REQ-F-004  

Since it is a complex diagram to interpret, detailed information can be obtained by clicking on both the requirements and the scenarios.  
<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="Class Diagram" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/REQ_ReqN004.png" />  
### Detail:Scenario 1

<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="Class Diagram" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/REQ_Scenario1.png" />  

# End-User
This is the diagram corresponding to the requirements that affect the **End-User**. This view shows all the operational scenarios and the specific functional and non-functional requirements they satisfy.

<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="End-User Requirements Diagram" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/end-user.png" />

Since the full diagram can be complex, here are detailed views from the Modelio `Links Editor` showing the traceability for a specific scenario and a specific requirement.

### Detail: Scenario 2 - Manual Control of the Robotic Arm
This view from the `Links Editor` shows all the requirements that are satisfied by `Scenario 2`.

<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="Scenario 2 Links" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/scenario2.png" />

### Detail: Requirement REQ-F-005 - Individual Joint Control
This view from the `Links Editor` shows which scenarios are linked to the requirement `REQ-F-005`.

<img width="2335" height="1240" alt="REQ-F-005 Links" src="https://github.com/MII-IS/SE25/blob/main/images/req5.png" />
