doc/WinOnUbuntu.md, before:

## Creating a Windows 11 Virtual Appliance on Ubuntu 24.04: A Step-by-Step Guide

This guide provides a comprehensive walkthrough on how to create a VirtualBox appliance for Windows 11 on an Ubuntu 24.04 host system. This allows for a portable and easily shareable Windows 11 environment that can be run on any machine with VirtualBox installed.

### 1. System Requirements: Ensuring Compatibility

Before you begin, it's crucial to ensure your host machine (the computer running Ubuntu 24.04) meets the minimum requirements for both VirtualBox and Windows 11.

**Windows 11 Minimum System Requirements:**
*   **Processor:** 1 gigahertz (GHz) or faster with 2 or more cores on a compatible 64-bit processor or System on a Chip (SoC).
*   **RAM:** 4 gigabytes (GB) or more.
*   **Storage:** 64 GB or larger storage device.
*   **System Firmware:** UEFI, Secure Boot capable.
*   **TPM:** Trusted Platform Module (TPM) version 2.0.
*   **Graphics Card:** Compatible with DirectX 12 or later with a WDDM 2.0 driver.
*   **Display:** High definition (720p) display that is greater than 9” diagonally, 8 bits per color channel.

**VirtualBox Hardware Requirements:**
*   A reasonably powerful x86 processor (any recent Intel or AMD processor should suffice).
*   Sufficient RAM for both the host (Ubuntu) and the guest (Windows 11) operating systems. At a minimum, you'll need the RAM required by your host OS plus the amount you plan to allocate to the virtual machine.
*   Enough hard disk space for the VirtualBox installation and the virtual machine's virtual hard disk.

### 2. Installing VirtualBox and the Extension Pack on Ubuntu 24.04

First, you need to install VirtualBox on your Ubuntu 24.04 system. You can typically find VirtualBox in the Ubuntu software repositories.

1.  **Install VirtualBox:** Open a terminal and run the following commands:
    ```bash
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install virtualbox
    ```

2.  **Install the VirtualBox Extension Pack:** The Extension Pack provides support for USB 2.0 and 3.0 devices, VirtualBox RDP, disk encryption, NVMe, and PXE boot for Intel cards. You can download it from the official VirtualBox website. Ensure the version of the Extension Pack matches your installed version of VirtualBox.

    Once downloaded, you can install it through the VirtualBox graphical user interface under `File -> Preferences -> Extensions`, or by using the following command in the terminal:
    ```bash
    sudo VBoxManage extpack install <path_to_extension_pack_file>
    ```

### 3. Creating the Windows 11 Virtual Machine

Now, you'll create a new virtual machine within VirtualBox to install Windows 11.

1.  **Download the Windows 11 ISO:** Obtain a Windows 11 disk image (ISO file) from the official Microsoft website.

2.  **Create a New Virtual Machine:**
    *   Open VirtualBox and click the "New" button.
    *   Give your virtual machine a descriptive name (e.g., "Windows 11").
    *   In the "Type" dropdown, select "Microsoft Windows".
    *   In the "Version" dropdown, select "Windows 11 (64-bit)".
    *   Allocate at least 4 GB of RAM (8 GB or more is recommended for better performance).
    *   Create a virtual hard disk. A dynamically allocated disk is a good option as it will only use space on your physical drive as it fills up. Ensure the size is at least 64 GB.

3.  **Configure the Virtual Machine for Windows 11:**
    *   Select your newly created virtual machine and click on "Settings".
    *   **System -> Motherboard:**
        *   Ensure "Enable EFI (special OSes only)" is checked.
    *   **System -> Processor:**
        *   Allocate at least 2 CPU cores.
    *   **System Tab (in some newer VirtualBox versions):**
        *   Enable **Secure Boot** and **TPM 2.0**. This is a crucial step for Windows 11 to install and run correctly.
    *   **Display -> Screen:**
        *   Allocate as much video memory as possible (up to 128 MB or 256 MB).
        *   Enable 3D Acceleration.
    *   **Storage:**
        *   In the "Storage Devices" section, click on the empty optical drive under the "Controller: IDE" section.
        *   In the "Attributes" panel on the right, click the disk icon and select "Choose a disk file...".
        *   Browse to and select the Windows 11 ISO file you downloaded.

### 4. Installing Windows 11 on the Virtual Machine

With the virtual machine configured, you can now proceed with the Windows 11 installation.

1.  **Start the Virtual Machine:** Select your Windows 11 VM and click the "Start" button.
2.  **Follow the Windows 11 Setup:** The virtual machine will boot from the ISO file, and the Windows 11 installation process will begin. Follow the on-screen instructions to install Windows.
3.  **Install VirtualBox Guest Additions:** Once Windows 11 is installed, it is highly recommended to install the VirtualBox Guest Additions. This will provide better performance, screen resolution, and integration between the host and guest systems, including features like shared clipboard and drag-and-drop.
    *   With the Windows 11 VM running, go to the "Devices" menu in the VirtualBox window and select "Insert Guest Additions CD image...".
    *   This will mount a virtual CD in your Windows 11 VM. Open File Explorer, navigate to the CD drive, and run the `VBoxWindowsAdditions.exe` installer. Follow the prompts and reboot the virtual machine when finished.

### 5. Creating the VirtualBox Appliance

After you have a fully installed and configured Windows 11 virtual machine, you can export it as a VirtualBox appliance. This will create a single, portable file (`.ova` or `.ovf`) containing the virtual machine's configuration and virtual hard disk.

1.  **Shut down the Windows 11 virtual machine.**
2.  In the VirtualBox Manager, go to **File -> Export Appliance...**.
3.  In the "Export Virtual Appliance" wizard, select the Windows 11 virtual machine you want to export.
4.  Choose a location to save the appliance file and select the format (OVF 1.0, OVF 2.0, or OVA). OVA is a single-file package and is generally more convenient.
5.  Click "Next" and then "Export" to begin the process. The time it takes will depend on the size of your virtual hard disk.

Once the export is complete, you will have a `.ova` file that you can easily move to another computer and import into VirtualBox, allowing you to run your pre-configured Windows 11 environment anywhere. To import the appliance, simply go to **File -> Import Appliance...** in VirtualBox on the new machine.

Commit message:

Enhance WinOnUbuntu.md with Extension Pack info
Added installation instructions for the Extension Pack and troubleshooting tips.

doc/WinOnUbuntu.md, after:

## Creating a Windows 11 Virtual Appliance on Ubuntu 24.04: A Step-by-Step Guide

This guide provides a comprehensive walkthrough on how to create a VirtualBox appliance for Windows 11 on an Ubuntu 24.04 host system. This allows for a portable and easily shareable Windows 11 environment that can be run on any machine with VirtualBox installed.

### 1. System Requirements: Ensuring Compatibility

Before you begin, it's crucial to ensure your host machine (the computer running Ubuntu 24.04) meets the minimum requirements for both VirtualBox and Windows 11.

**Windows 11 Minimum System Requirements:**
*   **Processor:** 1 gigahertz (GHz) or faster with 2 or more cores on a compatible 64-bit processor or System on a Chip (SoC).
*   **RAM:** 4 gigabytes (GB) or more.
*   **Storage:** 64 GB or larger storage device.
*   **System Firmware:** UEFI, Secure Boot capable.
*   **TPM:** Trusted Platform Module (TPM) version 2.0.
*   **Graphics Card:** Compatible with DirectX 12 or later with a WDDM 2.0 driver.
*   **Display:** High definition (720p) display that is greater than 9” diagonally, 8 bits per color channel.

**VirtualBox Hardware Requirements:**
*   A reasonably powerful x86 processor (any recent Intel or AMD processor should suffice).
*   Sufficient RAM for both the host (Ubuntu) and the guest (Windows 11) operating systems. At a minimum, you'll need the RAM required by your host OS plus the amount you plan to allocate to the virtual machine.
*   Enough hard disk space for the VirtualBox installation and the virtual machine's virtual hard disk.

### 2. Installing VirtualBox and the Extension Pack on Ubuntu 24.04

First, you need to install VirtualBox on your Ubuntu 24.04 system. You can typically find VirtualBox in the Ubuntu software repositories.

1.  **Install VirtualBox:** Open a terminal and run the following commands:
    ```bash
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install virtualbox
    ```

2.  **Install the VirtualBox Extension Pack:** The Extension Pack provides support for USB 2.0 and 3.0 devices, VirtualBox RDP, disk encryption, NVMe, and PXE boot for Intel cards. You can download it from the official VirtualBox website. Ensure the version of the Extension Pack matches your installed version of VirtualBox.

    Once downloaded, you can install it through the VirtualBox graphical user interface under `File -> Preferences -> Extensions`, or by using the following command in the terminal:
    ```bash
    sudo VBoxManage extpack install <path_to_extension_pack_file>
    ```
To install it, just double click on the dowloaded file in the file browser. If you have problems to insttall the Extension PAck they may be due to a version mistmach with VirtualBox. In this case, download and install the latest Virtualbox version from:

```bash
https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads
```

### 3. Creating the Windows 11 Virtual Machine

Now, you'll create a new virtual machine within VirtualBox to install Windows 11.

1.  **Download the Windows 11 ISO:** Obtain a Windows 11 disk image (ISO file) from the official Microsoft website.

2.  **Create a New Virtual Machine:**
    *   Open VirtualBox and click the "New" button.
    *   Give your virtual machine a descriptive name (e.g., "Windows 11").
    *   In the "Type" dropdown, select "Microsoft Windows".
    *   In the "Version" dropdown, select "Windows 11 (64-bit)".
    *   Allocate at least 4 GB of RAM (8 GB or more is recommended for better performance).
    *   Create a virtual hard disk. A dynamically allocated disk is a good option as it will only use space on your physical drive as it fills up. Ensure the size is at least 64 GB.

3.  **Configure the Virtual Machine for Windows 11:**
    *   Select your newly created virtual machine and click on "Settings".
    *   **System -> Motherboard:**
        *   Ensure "Enable EFI (special OSes only)" is checked.
    *   **System -> Processor:**
        *   Allocate at least 2 CPU cores.
    *   **System Tab (in some newer VirtualBox versions):**
        *   Enable **Secure Boot** and **TPM 2.0**. This is a crucial step for Windows 11 to install and run correctly.
    *   **Display -> Screen:**
        *   Allocate as much video memory as possible (up to 128 MB or 256 MB).
        *   Enable 3D Acceleration.
    *   **Storage:**
        *   In the "Storage Devices" section, click on the empty optical drive under the "Controller: IDE" section.
        *   In the "Attributes" panel on the right, click the disk icon and select "Choose a disk file...".
        *   Browse to and select the Windows 11 ISO file you downloaded.

### 4. Installing Windows 11 on the Virtual Machine

With the virtual machine configured, you can now proceed with the Windows 11 installation.

1.  **Start the Virtual Machine:** Select your Windows 11 VM and click the "Start" button.
2.  **Follow the Windows 11 Setup:** The virtual machine will boot from the ISO file, and the Windows 11 installation process will begin. Follow the on-screen instructions to install Windows.
3.  **Install VirtualBox Guest Additions:** Once Windows 11 is installed, it is highly recommended to install the VirtualBox Guest Additions. This will provide better performance, screen resolution, and integration between the host and guest systems, including features like shared clipboard and drag-and-drop.
    *   With the Windows 11 VM running, go to the "Devices" menu in the VirtualBox window and select "Insert Guest Additions CD image...".
    *   This will mount a virtual CD in your Windows 11 VM. Open File Explorer, navigate to the CD drive, and run the `VBoxWindowsAdditions.exe` installer. Follow the prompts and reboot the virtual machine when finished.

### 5. Creating the VirtualBox Appliance

After you have a fully installed and configured Windows 11 virtual machine, you can export it as a VirtualBox appliance. This will create a single, portable file (`.ova` or `.ovf`) containing the virtual machine's configuration and virtual hard disk.

1.  **Shut down the Windows 11 virtual machine.**
2.  In the VirtualBox Manager, go to **File -> Export Appliance...**.
3.  In the "Export Virtual Appliance" wizard, select the Windows 11 virtual machine you want to export.
4.  Choose a location to save the appliance file and select the format (OVF 1.0, OVF 2.0, or OVA). OVA is a single-file package and is generally more convenient.
5.  Click "Next" and then "Export" to begin the process. The time it takes will depend on the size of your virtual hard disk.

Once the export is complete, you will have a `.ova` file that you can easily move to another computer and import into VirtualBox, allowing you to run your pre-configured Windows 11 environment anywhere. To import the appliance, simply go to **File -> Import Appliance...** in VirtualBox on the new machine.
